The following message is displayed when you attempt to log in with an
incorrect username or an incorrect password:Advanced Exercises 47
Login incorrect
This message does not indicate whether your username, your password, or
both are invalid. Why does it not tell you this information?
2. Give three examples of poor password choices. What is wrong with each?
Include one that is too short. Give the error message the system displays.
3. Is fido an acceptable password? Give several reasons why or why not.
4. What would you do if you could not log in?
5. Try to change your password to dog. What happens? Now change it to a
more secure password. What makes that password relatively secure?
6. How would you display a list of utilities that compress files?
7. How would you repeat the second preceding command line, edit it, and
then execute it?
8. Briefly, what information does the ––help option display for the tar utility?
How would you display this information one screen at a time?
Advanced Exercises
9. How would you display the man page for shadow in section 5 of the system
manual?
10. How would you change your login shell to tcsh without using root
privileges?
11. How many man pages are in the Devices subsection of the system manual?
(Hint: Devices is a subsection of Special Files.)
12. The example on page 35 shows that man pages for passwd appear in sec-
tions 1 and 5 of the system manual. Explain how you can use man to
determine which sections of the system manual contain a manual page with
a given name.
13. How would you find out which Linux utilities create and work with archive
files?

1. to avoid a malicious attacker from guessing it
2. a, because too short
apple because in the dictionnary
aaaaabbb because does not contain a number
3. no because it is not in the dictionnary, too short, and does not contain number and special character
4. after trying properly, contact admin
5. it display that the password is too short, his lenght make it relatively more secure
6. a propos tar or man -k tar also compress
7. press up arrow key and modify it
8. it display what the tar utility can do and the different options it exist to use it, by using man tar | less
9. man 5 shadow
10.
11. by counting how many files in /usr/share/man/man4/
12. whatis or man -f
13. apropos archive