1. Which commands can you use to determine who is logged in on a specific
terminal?
2. How can you keep other users from using write to communicate with you?
Why would you want to?
3. What happens when you give the following commands if the file named
done already exists?
$ cp to_do done
$ mv to_do done
4. How can you find out which utilities are available on your system for edit-
ing files? Which utilities are available for editing on your system?
5. How can you find the phone number for Ace Electronics in a file named
phone that contains a list of names and phone numbers? Which command
can you use to display the entire file in alphabetical order? How can you dis-
play the file without any adjacent duplicate lines? How can you display the
file without any duplicate lines?
6. What happens when you use diff to compare two binary files that are not
identical? (You can use gzip to create the binary files.) Explain why the diff
output for binary files is different from the diff output for ASCII files.
7. Create a .plan file in your home directory. Does finger display the contents
of your .plan file?80 Chapter 3 The Utilities
8. What is the result of giving the which utility the name of a command that
resides in a directory that is not in your search path?
9. Are any of the utilities discussed in this chapter located in more than one
directory on the local system? If so, which ones?
10. Experiment by calling the file utility with the names of files in /usr/bin. How
many different types of files are there?
11. Which command can you use to look at the first few lines of a file named
status.report? Which command can you use to look at the end of the file?
Advanced Exercises
12. Re-create the colors.1 and colors.2 files used in Figure 3-8 on page 59. Test
your files by running diff –u on them. Does diff display the same results as
in the figure?
13. Try giving these two commands:
$ echo cat
$ cat echo
Explain the differences between the output of each command.
14. Repeat exercise 5 using the file phone.gz, a compressed version of the list
of names and phone numbers. Consider more than one approach to answer
each question and explain how you made your choices.
15. Find or create files that
a. gzip compresses by more than 80 percent.
b. gzip compresses by less than 10 percent.
c. Get larger when compressed with gzip .
d. Use ls –l to determine the sizes of the files in question. Can you charac-
terize the files in a, b, and c?
16. Older email programs were not able to handle binary files. Suppose you are
emailing a file that has been compressed with gzip , which produces a binary
file, and the recipient is using an old email program. Refer to the man page
on uuencode , which converts a binary file to ASCII. Learn about the utility
and how to use it.
a. Convert a compressed file to ASCII using uuencode . Is the encoded file
larger or smaller than the compressed file? Explain. (If uuencode is not on
the local system, you can install it using one of the tools described in
Appendix C; it is part of the sharutils package.)
b. Would it ever make sense to use uuencode on a file before compressing
it? Explain.

1. w
2. mesg n
3. cp give an error message because the file already exist
mv overwrite the file
4. locate edit or whereis edit
5. grep 'Ace Electronics' phone, sort phone, uniq phone, sort 
6. it indicate that the files differ, it is different form an ascii files because in an ascii files diff can indicate which lines differ
7. @
8. sudo needed ?
9. no
10. ELF 64-bit LSB executable, POSIX shell script, symbolic link(more symbolic link, so 3 + other symbolic link
11. head for begining tail for end
12. done, yes
13. echo cat display cat because echo receive the string cat and display it
cat echo say that there is not a proper directory because cat want to read and display the content of a file
14. cant because binary
15. a file done, because it is all the same characters
b file done, because it is almost all the same characters
c file done, because doesnt follow a logic, never the same characters..
16 done, no because it would have to be transformed into binary again